Hello everyone and welcome to the Creating a matrix lecture before you learn about the various data
types in our.
And we've also learned about vectors which allow us to store indexed elements matrix is going to allow
us to have to them actual data structures which contain elements consisting of the same data type.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio to explore how to create a matrix.
OK.
So here are our studio.
And before we actually talk about The Matrix I want to show you a quick tip for quickly creating sequential
numeric vectors you can use the colon notation similar to the slicing notation to actually create a
sequential vector of numerics.
So for example if I go ahead and type into the console one Clinton I get out a vector that sequential
integers that goes from 1 to 10.
So this is a nice trick.
They'll help you save a lot of time when you're creating these sequential numeric vectors.
And then you can assign this to a variable.
So for instance if I do this sort of assignments I've actually created quickly a vector of numeric sequence
.
All right.
So now that we know that little trick that's going to help us a lot with the matrix function.
So to create a matrix and are used the matrix function and the capacitate vector to it.
So I'm going to go in and say matrix and then I'm going to go ahead and pass in the data in this case
the first thing to do is just pass in the vector and we'll slowly discover the other arguments or parameters
.
We can define in the matrix function.
So now you'll notice that I've created a matrix and notice how it's been printed out.
Now it shows that it's in two dimensions.
We have 10 rows with one column instead of just having this one dimensional array.
So the outputs been displayed as a two dimensional matrix which is 10 rows by one column.
But what if we actually want to specify the number of rows.
So we actually want to specify how we construct this two dimensional matrix from that one the array
vector.
But we can pass a parameter arguments into the matrix called and row which stands for the number of
rows.
So let's go ahead and try this again.
I'm going to clear the console check that is still that vector 1 through 10 call the Matrix on V and
I'm going to go ahead and pass in a parameter and row.
And this just stands for the desired number of rows.
So I'm going to go ahead and say I want two rows to be made from this vector.
And so now a matrix has two rows and says we need to have the correct number of columns in order to
equal 10 elements.
It's going to be five columns since five times two is equal to 10.
So now we've been able to specify a two by five matrix.
Notice how the NRA argument allowed that to happen.
But the other question you may have is how do we actually the side that still order we could have filled
the columns first as we did in this case.
One two three four five six.
But we also could have filled the rows in sequential order.
So for example we could have had that first row been one to three four.
The horizontal.
Do you actually want to specify how you filled the matrix.
Default is by columns B you can say and add a by RHO argument which allows you to see whether or not
you want to fill out the Matrix right rows or columns.
So we're going to show you an example of that.
Going to go ahead and say Matrix and instead of passing and V and then the in a vector that goes from
1 to 12 sequentially using that colon notation and then to go ahead and specify by RHO to be equal to
false which is the default case.
And I'm going to specify a number of rows equal to 4.
So I have four rows meaning I should have three columns and four times three is 12.
And since I said biros equal to false which is the default anyways the matrix is filled by column for
.
So notice how that first column that one column here has 1 2 3 4.
And the second column is 5 6 7 8.
Also pay attention to how this index notation actually looks.
With the comma placements versus the rows and columns here.
So in the rows you get the row number first and then the comma and in the columns you get a comma first
and then the column number.
Later on we'll discuss why that's important for index purposes but for now which lushest us the by row
and the end row let's go ahead and try this same operation.
You'll go ahead and say biros is equal to true.
So don't go ahead and press up on my keyboard and change this false to be a capital T for true.
All right.
So now I said biros equal to T for true.
And I've been able to fill out this matrix by the row first so one two three four five six seven eight
nine etc..
Now that we've gone over some of the basics of using the matrix function and the additional parameters
inside of it let's go over how we can create matrices from many vectors and then how we can actually
name matrices.
So in order to do this I'm actually going to start writing in our scripts so to bring down the cancelbot
and type into this demo the script that I have here.
Let's go ahead and create two vectors one called g g which will go ahead and pretend that we're working
with stock prices for Google.
These aren't real prices I'm just making them up.
Well let's say we have just a steady rise maybe a little bit of a fall.
So just five stock prices for the five work days going to go ahead and make that into a vector.
Now let's make one more for let's say Microsoft and let's just go ahead and make up some stock prices
.
All right.
So we have two vectors and we can actually combine these into an object called or a variable called
stocks
and we'll use the combined function in this manner.
So now I have my two vectors Google and Microsoft and I'm using the combined function by passing them
in Google Microsoft and then I'm calling that variable stocks.
If I go ahead and say on line 6 to the space stocks and then I'm going to go ahead and run this file
here.
Notice that now in our environment we have this stock's value.
And if I want to see it in the console and I can actually just say print stocks so it's going to run
that so we can see it in the con..
And notice I have 450 4:31 the Google prices.
And then I got it combined with the Microsoft prices.
So if I actually want to build a matrix out of this I can use the following notation.
I can say stock Matrix
is the matrix function and I can pass in stocks than say by RHO is equal to.
Let's go ahead and just say T for true.
And then I'm going to specify and RHO to be equal to the number two.
So I'm going to say and a row is equal to two.
And let's go ahead and then just printout that stock matrix to see what it looks like.
So it's from that source.
And now we can see here we have this nice little matrix where the first row represents those Google
stock prices.
And the second row represents those Microsoft stock prices.
And now we want to do since we have our nice matrix it actually be nice to name the rows and the columns
for reference and we can actually do this just like we did it for vectors using the names function but
instead of using names we're going to do is use call names and row names in order to specify whether
naming the columns or the rows.
So let's go ahead and work on that part.
So we have that stock matrix.
Let's go ahead and name it.
It's going to be really similar to the way we named the vectors except we have two functions call names
and row names.
Now we have two that mentions Let's go ahead and make a vector called days.
And we're just going to have it be the days of the week so say Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday and
Friday
and then we'll also have let's say stock names.
And those are going to be equal to just their tickers which is Google and then MSFC Microsoft.
So have these two vectors which are the names you want and then we're going to go ahead and do is use
the name functions so call names in our stock matrix
and then assign it with days and then similarly foreign names pasand stock matrix and assign it those
ST names.
All right.
And then once you've done that let's go ahead and just print out the stock matrix and see what it looks
like.
So it's going to run that source.
And notice now we have a really nice looking matrix here in the console we have the columns clearly
defined by the days of the week and then the rows clearly names for their stock ticker.
They refer to.
All right.
So it looks like we're really starting to build up a powerful tool that we can use later on.
And you should begin to be reminded of a spreadsheet later on we're going to learn about data frames
another data structure is going to build on top of this idea.
For now that's the basics of actually creating a matrix in the next structure we're going to be building
off this matrix of stock prices.
So go ahead and keep this code for future reference.
Okay.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture